[FLINK-26604][doc] add more information for Avro records support and clean up redundant content of bounded and unbounded data (#19083)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/connectors/datastream/formats/parquet.md

Flink supports reading [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) files, 
producing {{< javadoc file="org/apache/flink/table/data/RowData.html" name="Flink RowData">}} and producing [Avro](https://avro.apache.org/) records.

> To use the format you need to add the flink-parquet dependency to your project for reading Flink RowData:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the format you need to add the `flink-parquet` dependency to your project:
```

	<version>{{< version >}}</version>
</dependency>
```

> For reading Avro records, parquet-avro dependency is required additionally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read Avro records, you will need to add the `parquet-avro` dependency:
```

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.parquet</groupId>
    <artifactId>parquet-avro</artifactId>
    <version>${flink.format.parquet.version}</version>
    <optional>true</optional>
    <exclusions>
        <exclusion>
            <groupId>org.apache.hadoop</groupId>
            <artifactId>hadoop-client</artifactId>
        </exclusion>
        <exclusion>
            <groupId>it.unimi.dsi</groupId>
            <artifactId>fastutil</artifactId>
        </exclusion>

>     </exclusions>

Reviewer: Are these exclusions only needed when using this in combination with `flink-parquet` ? Or can we already exclude these by default?

Author: The exclusions are defined in the pom.xml as optional in the flink-parquet sub module. I think there were some known conflict.

Author: @zentol may I have your advice for this case? Thanks.

Reviewer 2: Neither fastutil nor hadoop-client (or any hadoop dependency for that matter) is marked as `optional`, but `provided`.
fastutil is provided by flink-dist, while for hadoop we expect users to provided.

These exclusions don't really make sense to me.

Reviewer 2: Ah now I see what you mean. flink-parquet contains an optional dependency on parquet-avro, and it has this set of exclusions.

Reviewer 2: The fastutil exclusion in flink-parquet, or rather the `provided` dependency on it, doesn't make sense because fastutil isn't actually bundled by flink-dist.

Reviewer 2: As for the hadoop-client exclusion in flink-parquet, it's a bit odd, and the only explanation I can offer is that it exists for dependency convergence.
An exclusion in the user application somewhat makes sense because we don't want it to be bundled, but imo it would be more appropriate to set it to provided somehow.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. Beyond the reasons you mentioned above, what I understood additionally with the exclusions is that` flink-parquet` does not call any APIs and does not consume any functionality of the both excluded direct dependency `hadoop-client` and `fastutil`. Therefore, it is up to the user whether define them as provided or any other scopes in their own pom.xml. The Flink document just points out how to define the dependency of `parquet-avro`. In this case, with exclusions makes more sense.

</dependency>
```

This format is compatible with the new Source that can be used in both batch and streaming modes.
Thus, you can use this format for two kinds of data:
- Bounded data: lists all files and reads them all.
- Unbounded data: monitors a directory for new files that appear.

By default, a File Source is created in the bounded mode, to turn the source into the continuous unbounded mode you can call 
`AbstractFileSource.AbstractFileSourceBuilder.monitorContinuously(Duration)` additionally .

> **Batch mode**

Reviewer: I think Flink still uses Bounded and Unbounded data. Batch mode is referring to the execution mode

Author: True and this case is intended to describe the execution mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Vectorized reader**
```

```java

// reads bounded data of records from files at a time
FileSource.forBulkFileFormat(BulkFormat,Path...)
        
// reads unbounded data of records from files by monitoring the Paths
FileSource.forBulkFileFormat(BulkFormat,Path...)
        .monitorContinuously(Duration.ofMillis(5L))
        .build();

```

> **Streaming mode** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Unbounded data** 
```

```java

// reads bounded data of records from files at a time
FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(StreamFormat,Path...)
        
// reads unbounded data of records from files by monitoring the Paths
FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(StreamFormat,Path...)
        .monitorContinuously(Duration.ofMillis(5L))
        .build();

```

> From now on, this document will only show you examples for bounded data. You can add a call of

Reviewer: If we only show examples for either bounded or unbounded data, I think I would prefer to have the examples show unbounded data and explain how you could apply them to bounded data. Since batch is a special case of streaming from a Flink perspective.

Author: hmmm, I was checking the doc and found a conflict between this concept and the current implementation, since a File Source is created by default in the bounded mode.

	<version>{{< version >}}</version>
</dependency>
```

To read Avro records, you will need to add the `parquet-avro` dependency:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.parquet</groupId>
    <artifactId>parquet-avro</artifactId>
    <version>${flink.format.parquet.version}</version>
    <optional>true</optional>
    <exclusions>
        <exclusion>
            <groupId>org.apache.hadoop</groupId>
            <artifactId>hadoop-client</artifactId>
        </exclusion>
        <exclusion>
            <groupId>it.unimi.dsi</groupId>
            <artifactId>fastutil</artifactId>
        </exclusion>
    </exclusions>
</dependency>
```

> This format is compatible with the new Source that can be used in both batch and streaming modes.
> Thus, you can use this format for two kinds of data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This format is compatible with the new Source that can be used in both batch and streaming execution modes.
Thus, you can use this format for two kinds of data:
```

- Bounded data: lists all files and reads them all.
- Unbounded data: monitors a directory for new files that appear.

> By default, a File Source is created in the bounded mode, to turn the source into the continuous unbounded mode you can call 
> `AbstractFileSource.AbstractFileSourceBuilder.monitorContinuously(Duration)` additionally .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< hint info >}}
When you start a File Source it is configured for bounded data by default. 
To configure the File Source for unbounded data, you must additionally call 
`AbstractFileSource.AbstractFileSourceBuilder.monitorContinuously(Duration)`.
{{< /hint >}}
```

**Batch mode**

```java

> // reads bounded data of records from files at a time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Parquet rows are decoded in batches
```

FileSource.forBulkFileFormat(BulkFormat,Path...)
        

> // reads unbounded data of records from files by monitoring the Paths

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Monitor the Paths to read data as unbounded data
```

FileSource.forBulkFileFormat(BulkFormat,Path...)
        .monitorContinuously(Duration.ofMillis(5L))
        .build();

```

**Streaming mode** 

```java

> // reads bounded data of records from files at a time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Parquet rows are decoded as records
```

FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(StreamFormat,Path...)
        

> // reads unbounded data of records from files by monitoring the Paths

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Monitor the Paths to read data as unbounded data
```

FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(StreamFormat,Path...)
        .monitorContinuously(Duration.ofMillis(5L))
        .build();

```

> From now on, this document will only show you examples for bounded data. You can add a call of
> `AbstractFileSource.AbstractFileSourceBuilder.monitorContinuously(Duration)` for unbounded data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< hint info >}}
The following examples are all configured for bounded data. 
To configure the File Source for unbounded data, you must additionally call 
`AbstractFileSource.AbstractFileSourceBuilder.monitorContinuously(Duration)`.
{{< /hint >}}
```

        env.fromSource(source, WatermarkStrategy.noWatermarks(), "file-source");
```

#### Prerequisite of Parquet files

> In order to support reading Avro Reflect records, the parquet file must contain specific meta information.
> The Avro schema used for creating the parquet data must contain a `namespace`, 
> which will be used by the program to identify the concrete Java class for the reflection process.
> 
> The following example shows the User schema used previously. But this time it contains a namespace 
> pointing to the location(in this case the package), where the User class for the reflection could be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to support reading Avro reflect records, the Parquet file must contain specific meta information.
The Avro schema used for creating the Parquet data must contain a `namespace`, 
which will be used by the program to identify the concrete Java class for the reflection process.

The following example shows the `User` schema used previously. But this time it contains a namespace 
pointing to the location(in this case the package), where the `User` class for the reflection could be found.
```

```text
creator:        parquet-mr version 1.12.2 (build 77e30c8093386ec52c3cfa6c34b7ef3321322c94)
extra:          parquet.avro.schema =
{"type":"record","name":"User","namespace":"org.apache.flink.formats.parquet.avro","fields":[{"name":"name","type":"string"},{"name":"favoriteNumber","type":["int","null"]},{"name":"favoriteColor","type":["string","null"]}]}
extra:          writer.model.name = avro

file schema:    org.apache.flink.formats.parquet.avro.User
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
name:           REQUIRED BINARY L:STRING R:0 D:0
favoriteNumber: OPTIONAL INT32 R:0 D:1
favoriteColor:  OPTIONAL BINARY L:STRING R:0 D:1

row group 1:    RC:3 TS:143 OFFSET:4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
name:            BINARY UNCOMPRESSED DO:0 FPO:4 SZ:47/47/1.00 VC:3 ENC:PLAIN,BIT_PACKED ST:[min: Jack, max: Tom, num_nulls: 0]
favoriteNumber:  INT32 UNCOMPRESSED DO:0 FPO:51 SZ:41/41/1.00 VC:3 ENC:RLE,PLAIN,BIT_PACKED ST:[min: 1, max: 3, num_nulls: 0]
favoriteColor:   BINARY UNCOMPRESSED DO:0 FPO:92 SZ:55/55/1.00 VC:3 ENC:RLE,PLAIN,BIT_PACKED ST:[min: green, max: yellow, num_nulls: 0]

```

> With the User class defined in the package org.apache.flink.formats.parquet.avro:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `User` class defined in the package org.apache.flink.formats.parquet.avro:
```

        env.fromSource(source, WatermarkStrategy.noWatermarks(), "file-source");
```

> #### Prerequisite of Parquet files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Prerequisite for Parquet files
```
